DESIGNERS_INBOX_SETUP.md, before:

# 📧 Complete Email Tracking Setup for designers@orion-contracting.com

## 🎯 **Overview**

I've created a comprehensive email tracking system that monitors ALL emails sent to `designers@orion-contracting.com` and automatically detects replies. This system works with ANY email service provider, not just Gmail.

## 🔧 **What I've Built**

### ✅ **1. IMAP Monitoring Service**
- **File**: `app/Services/DesignersInboxMonitorService.php`
- **Command**: `php artisan email:monitor-designers-inbox`
- **Function**: Connects to `designers@orion-contracting.com` via IMAP and monitors for new emails

### ✅ **2. Webhook Handler**
- **File**: `app/Http/Controllers/DesignersInboxWebhookController.php`
- **Endpoint**: `https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/webhook/designers-inbox`
- **Function**: Receives email data via webhook from email forwarding rules

### ✅ **3. Console Command**
- **File**: `app/Console/Commands/MonitorDesignersInbox.php`
- **Function**: Scheduled to run every 5 minutes to check for new emails

### ✅ **4. Automatic Reply Detection**
- Detects emails with "Re:" or "RE:" in subject
- Matches replies to original sent emails
- Creates notifications for users
- Updates email status to "replied"

## 🚀 **Setup Instructions**

### **Step 1: Configure Environment Variables**

Add these to your `.env` file:

```env
# IMAP Configuration for designers@orion-contracting.com
IMAP_HOST=mail.orion-contracting.com
IMAP_PORT=993
IMAP_USERNAME=designers@orion-contracting.com
IMAP_PASSWORD=your_designers_email_password_here
IMAP_FOLDER=INBOX
IMAP_SSL=true
```

### **Step 2: Choose Your Monitoring Method**

#### **Option A: IMAP Monitoring (Recommended)**
- **Pros**: Works with any email service, no additional setup needed
- **Cons**: Requires IMAP credentials, runs on schedule (not real-time)

**Setup:**
1. Get the password for `designers@orion-contracting.com`
2. Add it to your `.env` file
3. Test: `php artisan email:monitor-designers-inbox --test`

#### **Option B: Email Forwarding (Real-time)**
- **Pros**: Real-time notifications, no IMAP needed
- **Cons**: Requires cPanel configuration

**Setup:**
1. Go to cPanel → Email Forwarders
2. Create forwarder: `designers@orion-contracting.com` → `webhook@odc.com.orion-contracting.com`
3. Configure webhook endpoint: `https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/webhook/designers-inbox`

#### **Option C: Both Methods (Best)**
- Use IMAP as backup + Email forwarding for real-time

### **Step 3: Test the System**

#### **Test IMAP Connection:**
```bash
php artisan email:monitor-designers-inbox --test
```

#### **Test Webhook:**
```bash
curl -X POST https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/webhook/designers-inbox/test \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"test": "webhook"}'
```

#### **Test Email Processing:**
```bash
curl -X POST https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/webhook/designers-inbox \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "from": "test@example.com",
    "to": "designers@orion-contracting.com",
    "subject": "Re: Task Completion Confirmation - Test Task",
    "body": "This is a test reply",
    "message_id": "test-reply-' . time() . '"
  }'
```

## 📋 **How It Works**

### **1. Email Sent from Your App**
```
Your App → Sends Email → CC: designers@orion-contracting.com
```

### **2. Someone Replies**
```
Client → Replies to Email → designers@orion-contracting.com
```

### **3. System Detects Reply**
```
IMAP Monitor OR Webhook → Detects Reply → Processes Email
```

### **4. Notification Created**
```
System → Finds Original Email → Creates Notification → User Gets Alert
```

## 🔍 **Testing Commands**

### **Check System Status:**
```bash
# Debug email system
curl https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/test/email/debug

# Check notification stats
curl https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/test/email/notification-stats

# Get recent emails
curl https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/test/email/recent-emails
```

### **Simulate Reply:**
```bash
curl -X POST https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/test/email/simulate-reply \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"email_id": 1}'
```

## 📊 **Monitoring Dashboard**

Visit: `https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/email-test-reply`

This page shows:
- Recent sent emails
- Test reply functionality
- Notification statistics
- System status

## 🚨 **Troubleshooting**

### **IMAP Connection Failed:**
1. Check credentials in `.env`
2. Verify IMAP is enabled in cPanel
3. Test with: `php artisan email:monitor-designers-inbox --test`

### **No Notifications:**
1. Check if emails are being tracked: `curl https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/test/email/debug`
2. Verify notifications exist: `curl https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/test/email/notification-stats`
3. Check Laravel logs: `tail -f storage/logs/laravel.log`

### **Webhook Not Working:**
1. Test webhook: `curl -X POST https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/webhook/designers-inbox/test`
2. Check cPanel forwarding rules
3. Verify webhook URL is accessible

## 🎯 **Next Steps**

1. **Deploy the code** to your production server
2. **Configure IMAP credentials** in `.env`
3. **Test IMAP connection**: `php artisan email:monitor-designers-inbox --test`
4. **Set up email forwarding** in cPanel (optional)
5. **Test the system** by sending a reply to `designers@orion-contracting.com`
6. **Check notifications** in your app

## 📈 **Benefits**

✅ **Universal Compatibility**: Works with ANY email service provider  
✅ **Real-time Detection**: Instant notifications when replies arrive  
✅ **Automatic Matching**: Links replies to original emails automatically  
✅ **User Notifications**: In-app notifications + email alerts  
✅ **Comprehensive Logging**: Full audit trail of all email activity  
✅ **Scalable**: Handles multiple users and projects  

The system is now ready to track ALL emails sent to `designers@orion-contracting.com`! 🎉

Commit message:

Change email from designers@orion-contracting.com to engineering@orion-contracting.com
- Updated all service files (DesignersInboxEmailService, EmailTrackingService, etc.)
- Updated all controller files (TaskController, EmailFetchController, etc.)
- Updated all view files (blade templates)
- Updated all command files
- Updated documentation files
- Updated test files
- Updated config/mail.php with new IMAP settings
- Changed system name from 'Orion Designers System' to 'Orion Engineering System'

DESIGNERS_INBOX_SETUP.md, after:

# 📧 Complete Email Tracking Setup for engineering@orion-contracting.com

## 🎯 **Overview**

I've created a comprehensive email tracking system that monitors ALL emails sent to `engineering@orion-contracting.com` and automatically detects replies. This system works with ANY email service provider, not just Gmail.

## 🔧 **What I've Built**

### ✅ **1. IMAP Monitoring Service**
- **File**: `app/Services/DesignersInboxMonitorService.php`
- **Command**: `php artisan email:monitor-designers-inbox`
- **Function**: Connects to `engineering@orion-contracting.com` via IMAP and monitors for new emails

### ✅ **2. Webhook Handler**
- **File**: `app/Http/Controllers/DesignersInboxWebhookController.php`
- **Endpoint**: `https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/webhook/designers-inbox`
- **Function**: Receives email data via webhook from email forwarding rules

### ✅ **3. Console Command**
- **File**: `app/Console/Commands/MonitorDesignersInbox.php`
- **Function**: Scheduled to run every 5 minutes to check for new emails

### ✅ **4. Automatic Reply Detection**
- Detects emails with "Re:" or "RE:" in subject
- Matches replies to original sent emails
- Creates notifications for users
- Updates email status to "replied"

## 🚀 **Setup Instructions**

### **Step 1: Configure Environment Variables**

Add these to your `.env` file:

```env
# IMAP Configuration for engineering@orion-contracting.com
IMAP_HOST=mail.orion-contracting.com
IMAP_PORT=993
IMAP_USERNAME=engineering@orion-contracting.com
IMAP_PASSWORD=your_designers_email_password_here
IMAP_FOLDER=INBOX
IMAP_SSL=true
```

### **Step 2: Choose Your Monitoring Method**

#### **Option A: IMAP Monitoring (Recommended)**
- **Pros**: Works with any email service, no additional setup needed
- **Cons**: Requires IMAP credentials, runs on schedule (not real-time)

**Setup:**
1. Get the password for `engineering@orion-contracting.com`
2. Add it to your `.env` file
3. Test: `php artisan email:monitor-designers-inbox --test`

#### **Option B: Email Forwarding (Real-time)**
- **Pros**: Real-time notifications, no IMAP needed
- **Cons**: Requires cPanel configuration

**Setup:**
1. Go to cPanel → Email Forwarders
2. Create forwarder: `engineering@orion-contracting.com` → `webhook@odc.com.orion-contracting.com`
3. Configure webhook endpoint: `https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/webhook/designers-inbox`

#### **Option C: Both Methods (Best)**
- Use IMAP as backup + Email forwarding for real-time

### **Step 3: Test the System**

#### **Test IMAP Connection:**
```bash
php artisan email:monitor-designers-inbox --test
```

#### **Test Webhook:**
```bash
curl -X POST https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/webhook/designers-inbox/test \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"test": "webhook"}'
```

#### **Test Email Processing:**
```bash
curl -X POST https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/webhook/designers-inbox \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "from": "test@example.com",
    "to": "engineering@orion-contracting.com",
    "subject": "Re: Task Completion Confirmation - Test Task",
    "body": "This is a test reply",
    "message_id": "test-reply-' . time() . '"
  }'
```

## 📋 **How It Works**

### **1. Email Sent from Your App**
```
Your App → Sends Email → CC: designers@orion-contracting.com
```

### **2. Someone Replies**
```
Client → Replies to Email → designers@orion-contracting.com
```

### **3. System Detects Reply**
```
IMAP Monitor OR Webhook → Detects Reply → Processes Email
```

### **4. Notification Created**
```
System → Finds Original Email → Creates Notification → User Gets Alert
```

## 🔍 **Testing Commands**

### **Check System Status:**
```bash
# Debug email system
curl https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/test/email/debug

# Check notification stats
curl https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/test/email/notification-stats

# Get recent emails
curl https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/test/email/recent-emails
```

### **Simulate Reply:**
```bash
curl -X POST https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/test/email/simulate-reply \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"email_id": 1}'
```

## 📊 **Monitoring Dashboard**

Visit: `https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/email-test-reply`

This page shows:
- Recent sent emails
- Test reply functionality
- Notification statistics
- System status

## 🚨 **Troubleshooting**

### **IMAP Connection Failed:**
1. Check credentials in `.env`
2. Verify IMAP is enabled in cPanel
3. Test with: `php artisan email:monitor-designers-inbox --test`

### **No Notifications:**
1. Check if emails are being tracked: `curl https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/test/email/debug`
2. Verify notifications exist: `curl https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/test/email/notification-stats`
3. Check Laravel logs: `tail -f storage/logs/laravel.log`

### **Webhook Not Working:**
1. Test webhook: `curl -X POST https://odc.com.orion-contracting.com/webhook/designers-inbox/test`
2. Check cPanel forwarding rules
3. Verify webhook URL is accessible

## 🎯 **Next Steps**

1. **Deploy the code** to your production server
2. **Configure IMAP credentials** in `.env`
3. **Test IMAP connection**: `php artisan email:monitor-designers-inbox --test`
4. **Set up email forwarding** in cPanel (optional)
5. **Test the system** by sending a reply to `designers@orion-contracting.com`
6. **Check notifications** in your app

## 📈 **Benefits**

✅ **Universal Compatibility**: Works with ANY email service provider  
✅ **Real-time Detection**: Instant notifications when replies arrive  
✅ **Automatic Matching**: Links replies to original emails automatically  
✅ **User Notifications**: In-app notifications + email alerts  
✅ **Comprehensive Logging**: Full audit trail of all email activity  
✅ **Scalable**: Handles multiple users and projects  

The system is now ready to track ALL emails sent to `designers@orion-contracting.com`! 🎉
